eXo Social provides a way to add profile information, connections and connections between users called People. With the eXo People API, profile information and relationship can be easily managed and customized.

h1. Identity {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.People.Identity}
The identity allows identifying a unique social object. Social objects can be persons, groups, applications, or whatever is related to social interactions like connecting, publishing an activity stream or holding a profile.
h2. IdentityProvider {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.People.IdentityProvider}

eXo Social provides IdentityProvider as a identiy mechanism for the third parties to extend Social's identity system without any limitation. Here is an example:

{code:java}
class SampleIdentityProvider extends OrganizationIdentityProvider{
  public SampleIdentityProvider(OrganizationService organizationService) {
    super(organizationService);
  }

  @Override
  public void populateProfile(Profile profile, User user) {
    profile.setProperty(Profile.FIRST_NAME, "this is first name");
    profile.setProperty(Profile.LAST_NAME, "this is last name");
    profile.setProperty(Profile.USERNAME, "this is user name");
    profile.setProperty(Profile.URL, "/path/to/profile/");
  }
}
{code}

In this example, the SampleIdentityProvider class extends OrganizationIdentityProvider which is the IdentityProvider used to connect to the portal user's base. In this class, the populateProfile method is overridden and some dummy data are added to the profile fields.

h2. IdentityManager {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.People.IdentityManager}

The IdentityManager is the service used to manipulate the identity operations like creating, getting, deleting or finding a profile. You can get the IdentityManager via the ExoContainer. The following code will show how to get an IdentityManager instance and create a basic identity instance:

{code:language=java}
import org.exoplatform.container.ExoContainer;
import org.exoplatform.container.ExoContainerContext;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.IdentityManager;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.impl.organization.OrganizationIdentityProvider;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.model.Identity;

//......

String containerName = "portal";
String username = "zun";

//get container to get other registered components
ExoContainer container = ExoContainerContext.getContainerByName(containerName);

//get IdentityManager to handle identity operation
IdentityManager identityManager = (IdentityManager) container.getComponentInstanceOfType(IdentityManager.class);

//get ActivityManager to handle activity operation
ActivityManager activityManager = (ActivityManager) container.getComponentInstanceOfType(ActivityManager.class);

//create new user with name Zun
Identity userIdentity = identityManager.getOrCreateIdentity(OrganizationIdentityProvider.NAME, username);
{code}


h1. ProfileListener {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.People.ProfileListener}

The People API provides notification interfaces which you can implement to create your own handlers for notification when having profile modifications by extending the ProfileListenerPlugin class or relationship changes by extending [RelationshipListenerPlugin|#SOCref.Developers_References.People.RelationshipListener].

* Firstly, create the ProfileLoggerListener class to log all profile modifications of the systems. The abstract class ProfileListenerPlugin provides the interface to implement this method.

{code:java}
import org.exoplatform.services.log.ExoLogger;
import org.exoplatform.services.log.Log;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.lifecycle.ProfileListenerPlugin;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.spi.ProfileLifeCycleEvent;


public class ProfileLoggerListener extends ProfileListenerPlugin{
  private static final Log logger = ExoLogger.getExoLogger(ProfileLoggerListener.class);
  @Override
  public void avatarUpdated(ProfileLifeCycleEvent event) {
    logger.info("@" + event.getUsername() + " profile has updated his basic profile info.");
  }

  @Override
  public void basicInfoUpdated(ProfileLifeCycleEvent event) {
    logger.info("@" + event.getUsername() + " profile has updated his basic profile info.");
  }

  @Override
  public void contactSectionUpdated(ProfileLifeCycleEvent event) {
    logger.info("@" + event.getUsername() + " profile has updated his contact info.");
  }

  @Override
  public void experienceSectionUpdated(ProfileLifeCycleEvent event) {
    logger.info("@" + event.getUsername() + " profile has an updated experience section.");
  }

  @Override
  public void headerSectionUpdated(ProfileLifeCycleEvent event) {
    logger.info("@" + event.getUsername() + " has updated his header info.");
  }
}
{code}

* Then, add some configurations for this class to the configuration.xml:

{code:xml}
<external-component-plugins>
  <target-component>org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.IdentityManager</target-component>
  <component-plugin>
    <name>ProfileLoggerListener</name>
    <set-method>addProfileListener</set-method>
    <type>path.to.ProfileLoggerListener</type>
  </component-plugin>
</external-component-plugins>
{code}

h1. Connections {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.People.Relationships}
Similarly, you can apply the above steps to implement the RelationshipListenerPlugin for relationship notifications.

Relationship is the bridge between two identities in eXo Social. There are many types of relationships defined in the Relationship class. With these types, a user can invite another user, confirm invitations or remove relationship.

h2. Users connection {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.People.Connecting_users}

The following code will show how to invite a user to connect to another :

{code:java}
import org.exoplatform.container.ExoContainer;
import org.exoplatform.container.ExoContainerContext;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.IdentityManager;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.impl.organization.OrganizationIdentityProvider;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.identity.model.Identity;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.relationship.Relationship;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.relationship.RelationshipManager;

public void inviteUser() throws Exception {
  String containerName = "portal";
  ExoContainer container = ExoContainerContext.getContainerByName(containerName);

  IdentityManager identityManager = (IdentityManager) container.getComponentInstanceOfType(IdentityManager.class);

  Identity invitedIdentity = identityManager.getOrCreateIdentity(OrganizationIdentityProvider.NAME, "Hoat");
  String invitedUserId = invitedIdentity.getId();

  String currUserId = "Zun";
  Identity currentIdentity = identityManager.getOrCreateIdentity(OrganizationIdentityProvider.NAME,  currUserId);

  RelationshipManager relationshipManager = (RelationshipManager) container.getComponentInstanceOfType(RelationshipManager.class);
  Relationship relationship = relationshipManager.invite( currentIdentity, invitedIdentity);
}
{code}


h2. RelationshipListener {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.People.RelationshipListener}
The following example will show you how to implement one of these interfaces and how to configure this plugin. The following step is similar to the Profile notifications implementation.

* Firstly, create the RelationshipLoggerListener class:
{code:java}
import org.exoplatform.social.core.relationship.Relationship;
import org.exoplatform.social.core.relationship.lifecycle.RelationshipListenerPlugin;
import org.exoplatform.social.relationship.spi.RelationshipEvent;

public class RelationshipLoggerListener extends RelationshipListenerPlugin{
  private static final Log logger = ExoLogger.getExoLogger(RelationshipLoggerListener.class);

  @Override
  public void confirmed(RelationshipEvent event) {
    String[] names = getUserNamesFromEvent(event);
    logger.info(names[0] +" confirmed the invitation of "+ names[1]);
  }

  @Override
  public void ignored(RelationshipEvent event) {
    String[] names = getUserNamesFromEvent(event);
    logger.info(names[0] +" ignored the invitation of "+ names[1]);
  }

  @Override
  public void removed(RelationshipEvent event) {
    String[] names = getUserNamesFromEvent(event);
    logger.info(names[0] +" removed the relationship with "+ names[1]);
  }

  private String[] getUserNamesFromEvent(RelationshipEvent event){
    Relationship relationship = event.getPayload();

    Identity id1 = relationship.getIdentity1();
    Identity id2 = relationship.getIdentity2();

    String user1 = "@" + id1.getRemoteId();
    String user2 = "@" + id2.getRemoteId();

    return new String[]{user1, user2 };
  }
}
{code}

* Then, add some configurations for this class to the configuration.xml:

{code:xml}
<external-component-plugins>
  <target-component>org.exoplatform.social.core.relationship.RelationshipManager</target-component>
  <component-plugin>
    <name>RelationshipLoggerListener</name>
    <set-method>addListenerPlugin</set-method>
    <type>classpath.of.your.RelationshipLoggerListener</type>
  </component-plugin>
</external-component-plugins>
{code}

