eXo Social supports the OpenSocial standard. So you can integrate OpenSocial gadgets in your dashboard and use the RPC or REST service to view or publish the social data.
With the support for the OpenSocial standard, eXo Social provides a framework for developers to build gadgets that can display and mash up activity information for contacts, social networks, applications and services.
h1. Gadget {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.OpenSocial.Gadget}

Gadgets are web-based software components based on HTML, CSS, JavaScript; defined by using an XML declaration syntax. They allow developers to easily write social applications that work on the social networks supporting OpenSocial APIs without modification. See the following links for detailed information:

* [Gadgets Specification v1.1|http://opensocial-resources.googlecode.com/svn/spec/1.1/Social-Gadget.xml]

* [OpenSocial Core Gadget Specification v1.1|http://opensocial-resources.googlecode.com/svn/spec/1.1/Core-Gadget.xml]

You are going to the detail on how to create an opensocial gadget. However, the tutorials are done greatly in Opensocial official site so you should read these tutorials at [this website|http://wiki.opensocial.org/index.php?title=Gadget_Developer's_Guide]

{note}
In Opensocial, gadgets only work in the dashboard in eXo Social.
{note}

h2. Supported APIs {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.OpenSocial.Supported_APIs}

As said above, eXo Social is implementing the OpenSocial standard. So, every eXo Social implementations apply the Opensocial Specification generally or [Apache Shindig|http://shindig.apache.org/overview.html] specifically. Therefore, eXo Social uses and extends Apache Shindig APIs to compatible with the common Opensocial APIs which is supported by other big social networks like [Ning|http://www.ning.com], [Hi5|http://www.hi5.com], [Orkut|http://www.orkut.com], etc.

To get more details about Supported APIs, you should also read [Opensocial Specs|http://www.opensocial.org/page/specs-1].

h1. REST/RPC API {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.OpenSocial.REST_RPC_API}

If your eXo social server is running on http://localhost:8080/m the address of the API will be:

REST API:
http://localhost:8080/social/social/rest

RPC API:
http://localhost:8080/social/social/rpc

To learn what you can do with this APIs, have a look at the [specification|http://opensocial-resources.googlecode.com/svn/spec/1.0/Social-Data.xml]. If you are developing in Java, you can use the [opensocial-java-client|http://code.google.com/p/opensocial-java-client/]

h2. Configure the security {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.OpenSocial.Configure_security}
If you are using opensocial, there is good chance you are going to need to configure the oAuth authentication. To do this, you need to edit the configuration to add you oAuth key.

Edit the file: _gatein/conf/portal/portal/configuration.xml_ and add this component:
{code}
        <component>
                <key>org.exoplatform.social.opensocial.oauth.ServiceProviderStore</key>
                <type>org.exoplatform.social.opensocial.oauth.ServiceProviderStore</type>

                <init-params>
                        <properties-param>
                                <name>grails-book-flow</name>
                                <description>
								consmer key and secret for sample oauth provider. 
								</description>
                                <property name="consumerKey" value="YOUR_KEY_HERE" />

                                <property name="sharedSecret" value="YOUR_SECRET_KEY_HERE" />
                        </properties-param>

                </init-params>
        </component>
{code}

The consumerKey and sharedSecret are the key that need to be shared with the application that is doing the request.

h2. Publish an activity into a space {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.OpenSocial.Publish_Activity_Into_Space}

eXo Social added this functionality that is not available in the standard opensocial API. You can publish activities into a space using the opensocial API.

To do this, instead of publishing your activity to the group @self as usual, publish it to the group "space:spaceID" or "space:spaceName".

Using the opensocial java library and groovy, your code will look like this:
{code}
      def client = getOpenSocialClient()

      //we create your new activity
      Activity activity = new Activity()
      activity.title = "BookFlow Purchase"
      activity.body = "xx puchased the book xxx"

      //We prepare the request that will create the activity
      Request request = ActivitiesService.createActivity(activity);
      //We specify that the creation of this new activity is for the space bookflow
      request.groupId = "space:bookflow";

      client.send(request);
{code}
As you can see in this example, the groupId is set to "space:bookflow", BookFlow is the name of your space.

h3. Tutorial {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.OpenSocial.Tutorial}
* See [Grails + eXo Social tutorial|http://www.exoplatform.com/company/public/website/resource-viewer?path=/website/Content%20types/Tutorial/grails-exo-social].