All Social Gadgets are in opensocial.war

h1. Activities
* *Description:* Manages activities of users. Some kinds of activities such as: update status, like/unlike activities, comment activities, delete activities and delete comments. 
* *Used REST services:* ActivitiesRestServices


h1. ApplicationList	
* *Description:* Gets information of all applications (portlet type) that is existing in Portal. This is gadget is used for demo rest service get application from portal container.  
* *Used REST services:* AppsRestService


h1. RSSFetch
* *Description:* Fetches and parses Rss information from specific url. 
* *Description of user preferences:* Number of rss per page is 10 by default; Get rss from input url ( Default url is http://blog.exoplatform.org/feed/ ).
* *Used REST services:* N/A 


h1. UserSpaces
* *Description:*
* *Used REST services:* SpacesRestService


h1. MySpaces
* *Description:* Gets information of space that is my space and pending space of current login user. This gadget is used for demo using tab in writing gadget. 
* *Used REST services:* SpacesRestService

All Social Gadgets are in the _opensocial.war_ file

|| Gadget name || Used REST service || Description ||
| *Activities* | ActivitiesRestServices | To manage activities of users. For example, update status, like/unlike activities, comment activities, delete activities and delete comments.
| *ApplicationList* | AppsRestService | To get information of all existing applications (portlet type) in the Portal. The gadget is used for the demo rest service to get application from the portal container. |
| *RSSFetch* | N/A | The number of rss per page is 10 by default; Get the rss from input url ( Default url is http://blog.exoplatform.org/feed/ ) |
| *UserSpaces* | SpacesRestService |  |
| *MySpaces* | SpacesRestService | To get information of spaces, including my space and pending spaces of current login users. This gadget is used for the demo using tab in writing gadgets. |

