h1. Applications {anchor:id=SOCref.Applications}
{include:document="Application/Application.wiki"}
h2. Portlets {anchor:id=SOCref.Portlets}
{include:document="Application/List_of_Portlets.wiki"}
h2. Gadgets {anchor:id=SOCref.List_Of_Gadget_in_Social}
{include:document="Application/List_of_Gadgets.wiki"}

h1. Configuration {anchor:id=SOCref.Configurations}
{include:document="Configuration/Configuration_introduction.wiki"}
h2. Component {anchor:id=SOCref.Configuration.Component}
{include:document="Configuration/Configuration.wiki"}
h2. External Component Plugin {anchor:id=SOCref.Configuration.External_component_plugins}
{include:document="Configuration/Plugin.wiki"}


h1. Developers References {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Developer_References.wiki"}
h2. UI Extensions {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.UIExtensions}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Developer_Documentation_Activity_Plugin.wiki"}
h2. Overridable Components {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.OverridableComponents}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Overrideable_components.wiki"}
h2. Public Java APIs {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.PublicJavaAPIs}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Java_APIs.wiki"}
h2. Java APIs sample code/ tutorial {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.SampleCode_Tutorial}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Java_APIs_sample_code.wiki"}
h3. Activity Stream {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.ActivityStreamRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Developer_Documentation_Activity_Stream.wiki"}
h3. OpenSocial {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.OpenSocialRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Developer_Documentation_OpenSocial.wiki"}
h3. People {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.PeopleRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Developer_Documentation_People.wiki"}
h3. Spaces {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.SpacesRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Developer_Documentation_Spaces.wiki"}
h3. Space widget tutorial {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.Space_widget_tutorialRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/widget_tutorial.wiki"}
h3. Activities rendering {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.Extend_activities_renderingRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/How_to_extend_the_activities_rendering.wiki"}
h3. XMLProcessor component {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.XMLProcessorRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/XMLProcessor.wiki"}
h3. Internationalized activities {anchor:id=SOCref.Developers_References.How_to_create_i18n_activitiesRoleNotInToc}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Create_i18n_activities.wiki"}
h2. Public REST APIs {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.PublicREST_APIs}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/REST_APIs.wiki"}
h2. Rest Service APIs {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.RestService_APIs}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Rest_Service_APIs.wiki"}
h2. Public Javascript APIs {anchor:id=SOCref.DevelopersReferences.PublicJavascriptAPIs}
{include:document="DeveloperReference/Javascript_APIs.wiki"}
h2. Social JCR Structure {anchor:id=SOCref.Social_JCR_Structure}
{include:document="jcr_structure.wiki"}
h2. Spaces Template configuration {anchor:id=SOCref.Space_Template_Configuration}
{include:document="Configuration/Spaces_Template_Configuration.wiki"}
h2. Configure the 2-legged OAuth scenario {anchor:id=SOCref.ConfigureOauth2_Legend_Scenario}
{include:document="Configuration/Configuring_the_oauth_2_legged_scenario.wiki"}