
h1. Social Manual






This module depends on the [eXo Portal|Portal:WebHome], therefore you should also study the [Portal:Portal Manual].



h1. Terms

 [eXo Spaces|eXo Spaces], [Social:Access Right]




h1. User Manual



*Basic Portal Operations*
* [Register new accounts]
* [Sign In and Sign Out]
* [Change Interface Language]



*Spaces*
* [Create Spaces]
* [Space Settings]

*People*
* [Send Requests]
* [User Profile]

h1. Administration

Please refer to the [Portal:Portal Manual#Administration].

* [Administrate Spaces]
* [Add Users]


h1. Installation

* [Quick Install Guide|InstallGuide] : for evaluators
* [Production Deployment Tutorial] : for sysadmins for production installs



h1. Configuration


* [Social:Spaces Template Configuration] : Configure the default applications container in new spaces
* [User Profile Fields]


h1. Integration

* [Connect to an LDAP Directory|LDAP Integration]
* [Integrating 3rd party notifications in activity streams|Feedmash]
* [How to disable socialdemo]






h1. Release Notes and Dependencies


[Release Notes]




h1. Migration



h1. Technical Foundations

* [OpenSocial Implementation|OpenSocial]
* [OpenSocial in eXo Social] : How eXo Social leverages the OpenSocial specification
* [Save and get space context from a portlet|Space Portlet Preference]




h1. Development


See [Developer Documentation]

h2. Additional Tutorials


* [Developing Open Social Gadgets] : tutorial to  develop Gadgets
* [OpenSocial for the java developer] : Tutorial to develop an opensocial application in java
* [Using the Activity API] : How to call the REST Activity API
* [Using the People API] :How to call the REST People API
* [How to extend the activities rendering]
* [How to listen to relationships]
* [How to listen to profile updates]
* [How to listen to space lifecycle]
* [How to add custom profile attributes]
* [How to republish an RSS feed into an activity stream]

*External resources*
* [Official OpenSocial Developer's Guide|http://code.google.com/apis/opensocial/docs/0.8/devguide.html] on Google Code
* [How to deploy a remote OpenSocial Google Gadget made with GWT in eXo|http://laurentbois.com/2008/11/23/deploy-a-remote-opensocial-google-gadget-made-with-gwt-in-exo/] by [Laurent Bois|http://laurentbois.com]



Also check this list of [useful RSS] feeds to follow.








h1. Support

* [FAQ]
* [Forum|http//www.exoplatform.com/portal/public/website/community/forum?portal:componentId=forum&portal.type=action&portal.isSecure=false&uicomponent=UIBreadcumbs&op=ChangePath&objectId=forumab7b15a4c0a8020100f26f91e70ecd33]

Professional support is available at http://www.exoplatform.com

