h3. identity    {anchor:id=SOCref.DevRef.RestService_APIs_v1alpha1.IdentityResources.identity}
h4. GET identity/:identityId.format    {anchor:id=SOCref.DevRef.RestService_APIs_v1alpha1.IdentityResources.identity.Get}

*Description*: Gets the identity and its associated profile by the activity Id.
*Url*:
{code}http://{domain_name}/{rest_context_name}/private/api/social/{version}/{portal_container_name}/identity/:identityId.format{code}

*For example*:

[http://platform35.demo.exoplatform.org/rest/private/api/social/v1/portal/identity/123456789.json]

[http://localhost:8080/rest-socialdemo/private/api/social/v1/socialdemo/identity/123456789.json]



*Supported Format*: json

*Requires Authentication*: true

*Parameters*: No

*Examples*:
* *JSON*
** *Request*
{code}
GET: http://platform35.demo.exoplatform.org/rest/private/api/social/v1/portal/identity/123456789.json
{code}
** *Response*
{code}
{
  "id" : "123456789",
  "providerId": "organization",
  "remoteId": "demo",
  "profile": {
    "fullName": "Demo Gtn",
    "avatarUrl": "http://platform35.demo.exoplatform.org/profile/avatar/demo.jpg"
  }
}
{code}

h3. Notes   {anchor:id=SOCref.DevRef.RestService_APIs_v1alpha1.IdentityResources.Notes}
*Identity Resources*: *Identity Resources* has been supported to get an Id of identity based on providerId and remoteId. eXo Social 1.2.0-GA has not implemented this feature yet, however there is a workaround solution for that.

h4. GET: {noformat}{rest_context_name}/{portal_container_name}/social/identity/:username/id/show.json{noformat} {anchor:id=SOCref.DevRef.RestService_APIs_v1alpha1.IdentityResources.Notes.Get}

*Description*: Gets the identity Id from a provided username.

*Url*:

{code}http://{domain_name}/{rest_context_name}/{portal_container_name}/social/identity/{username}/id/show.json{code}

For example:

[http://platform35.demo.exoplatform.org/rest/portal/social/identity/demo/id/show.json]

[http://localhost:8080/rest-socialdemo/socialdemo/social/identity/demo/id/show.json]

*Supported Format*: json

*Requires Authentication*: false

*Parameters*: No

*Examples*:
* *JSON*
** *Request*
{code}
GET: http://localhost:8080/rest-socialdemo/socialdemo/social/identity/demo/id/show.json
{code}

** *Response*
{code}
{"id":"f92cd6f0c0a80137102696ac26430766"}
{code}
